== Geek Painter

A very simple DSL to generate colored strings to use in *nix-like OS's terminals

== Installation
	
	gem install geek_painter
	
== Usage
	
=== Generate a valid string to be used as a prompt string (PS1)
	
Check this link to see the available variables: http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-tip-prompt/

Put the following lines in a file (ie. ~/.my_scripts/my_prompt.rb or whatever you want)
	
	master_piece = GeekPainter.paint do
	  label "[".in(:brown).on :blue
	  label "\\u".in  :red
	  label ":".in    :yellow
	  label "\\h".in  :red
	  label "] ".in(:magenta).on :red
	  label "\\W ".in :default
	  label "\$(__git_ps1)".in :yellow <= This might not work if you don't have git installed
	end
	
	puts master_piece.prompt
		
Now open your ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bashrc or ~/.profile and put this on it

	PS1=`ruby ~/.my_scripts/my_prompt.rb`

Open a console and you'll see your new shiny and colorful prompt.

If you just want to copy and paste the string run the same script like this in a Ruby terminal (irb):

	 puts master_pieces.raw_prompt

Copy the resulting string and paste it in your PS1.

=== Generate a valid string to be used as colored text in the terminal

	my_text = GeekPainter.paint do
		label "Hello, ".in(:red).on(:blue)
		label "World.".in(:yellow).on(:cyan)
	end
	
	puts my_text.raw_text

In this case "raw_text" will return the following string: 
	
	\e[1;31;44mHello, \e[1;33;46mWorld.\e[0m

Copy it and...
	
	$ printf "\e[1;31;44mHello, \e[1;33;46mWorld.\e[0m"
	
To print the colored text in the Interactive Ruby console (IRb) do the following

	puts my_text.text # it will print the colored text itself not the escaped string
		
== Available colors

=== Foreground (These colors can be used as a parameter in the "in" method)

	:black
	:dark_gray
	:light_gray
	:light_red
	:red
	:light_green
	:green
	:yellow
	:brown
	:light_blue
	:blue
	:light_magenta
	:magenta
	:light_cyan
	:cyan
	:white
	:default
    
=== Background (These colors can be used as a parameter in the "on" method)

	:black
	:red
	:green
	:brown
	:blue
	:magenta
	:cyan
	:white
	:default

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.
	
== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Rafael Magaña. See LICENSE for details.